Hello Friends,
In this video today, we are going to talk health Insurance.
You all already have a basic understanding about health insurance
like what health insurance is about
but in this video we are going to discuss in detail the recommended health insuance product for you.
What all features does it have?
Which all problems will be covered after some waiting period?
What are the exclusions in the policy?
More importantly, what all riders we should take out of the many offered by the company, not mandatory but good to have.
So without wasting any time, lets get started.
Before understanding health insurance and its features,
let us first understand the structure of how it acutally works
Basically, there are three actors/participants in health insurance
1. Yourself (insured) - person buying the policy
2. Insurance company - Whose policy you are buying
3. Hospital - from where treatment will be taken in case of any medical problem
So in this case,
first condition
for claim settlment through health insurance is
THAT Hospitalization tenure has to be of minimum 24 yrs
otherwise insurance company will not settle the claim
There is one exception to this rule which we will discuss in some time
but for the time being just understand that minimum hospitalization of 24 hr is required
otherwise insurance company will not settle the claim
Now, insurance company can settle the claim in two ways
1. Cashless Claim Settlement
2. Reimbursement of Claim
Cashless means if you are getting your treatment from a hospital
which is a part of insurance company's panel list
then
You won't have to pay as insurance company will pay directly to hospital
means, no money is getting debited from your account towards hospitalization expense (except for unclaimed amount)
and you get treatment in pure cashless manner
if you take treatment from a hospital which is not a part of insurance company's penal list
then the process is that Firstly, you pay to the hospital  for your treatment
then, you submit the bills to insurance company and file claim for reimbursement
Insurance company will verify your claim
and if verified, then reimbursement amount will be transferred to your account
See friends, In both the case
be it cashless or reimbursement claim settlement
your are eligible for 100% settlement
So it means this policy do not have co - payment
It is not like if bill amounts to 2 lac then company will pay only 1.8 lac
Company will pay the entire 2 lac (except for uncovered amount) provided your diagnosis is covered under the policy
So the first point of this slide says the same thing
that if you are getting your hospitalization from one of the penal list hospital
then you are eligible for cashless treatment
And there are more than 7000 hospitals available PAN India for this facility
AYUSH Treatment - Ayurvedic, Unani, Satvic or Homopathic
You can take any treatment but condition remains the same
Minimum hospitalization of 24 hrs is mandatory for claim
and treatment hospital should be a registered hospital
Should not be a street clinic with hardly any hospital beds
There is a certain criteria that make local clinic - a eligible hospital
For ex the number of beds among other things
AYUSH treatment is covered upto sum insured. No CAPPING
For 10 lac policy, claim upto 10 lacs can be taken under AYUSH
GUARANTEED No Claim Bonus
One of the best benefit of this policy
If Ipurchase a policy for 10 lacs sum insured
then company says if you dont take any claim
then company will increase your base policy sum insured by 20%
Means 10 lac policy will increase to 12 lacs after 1st year of no claim
after that
In second year if I get a claim then what other companies usually does is
they roll back the added 2 lac sum insured in event of claim making sum insured available in third year back to 10 lacs
But this policy the addition wont be substracted
10 lac to 12 lacs in case of no claim in first year,
claim in 2nd year
This wont be reduced to 10 lac but will remain 12 lacs
Means in case of claim, there will be no addition and no substraction
Means your policy will remain for 12 lacs
If again there is no claim in third year, then this sum insured will increase again by 20% to 14 lacs
and it will continue in this manner till it reaches 20 lacs
Meaning my 10 lac policy will underwent 5 upgrades of 20% each for every no claim year till policy reaches 20 lacs
after which it will stop and stay at 20 lacs
That was all about Guaranteed No claim bonus
SUM INSURED RESTORE
Lets understand this with the help of example.
There is a person A who has bought this policy for 10 lacs
Now Mr. A underwent a heart problem for which 8 lac claim came
So obviously, out of 10 lac policy, 8 lac paid by company in claim -> Remaining cover left is 2 lacs
The very same year, if Mr A underwent another Heart problem and again 2nd claim of 8 lac came
then company says we will restore your policy sum insured back to original
meaning that leftover cover of 2 lac will be increased back to 10 lac for settling the claim of 8 lacs in full again
So SuM INSureD REstoration essentially means that
your sum insured of base policy will be reinstated once it is exhausted
Lets take another example for better understanding
Two members are covered in the same policy - A and B (Sum insured 10 lacs)
Mr. A takes claim for 3 lacs -> Leftover claim -> 7 lacs
Mr. B takes claim for 4 lacs -> leftover claim -> 3 lacs
Now Mr. A again underwent some problem (be it same or different it doesn't matter)
as this restoration works for same person same illness as well
So if again Mr. A needs 8 lac for treatment then company will refill this 3 lacs back to 10 lacs and settle the claim in full
Important point to be noted here is that
Once your base policy sum insured (10 lacs) is completely exhaused
after that company will reinstate your sum insured only once and settle claim
As in here 3 lac was increased to 10 lacs and of which they will settle 8 lac claim
but there will be nothing left after this for further claim settlement
irrespective of whether Mr. A is claiming or Mr. B is claiming
Nothing is available now as your have taken claim for more money than your base policy
Now there can be a confusion here wrt to Guaranteed no claim bonus
For ex :